Managerial Accounting is focused on **internal reporting**, which aims to provide information to internal users instead of external users. Internal reporting does not get published to the outside world, and can be less accurate or based on projections.

**Internal users** are decision makers inside of the company. They are the main people in charge of planning and control.

`PDCA Cycle`: Plan -> Do -> Check -> Act; a method for creating **continuous improvement**.

Managerial accounting is significantly different from financial accounting because:

- Allows for more **flexibility** in how and when the data is reported
- Allows reports to be more **timely** and have less **precision** than financial statements
- Allows for reports **specifically oriented** towards specific people/areas of the company

Fixed Costs vs Variable Costs:

- A **fixed cost** is a cost that does not change in proportion to the volume produced.
- A **variable cost** is a cost that does change in proportion to the volume produced.

Traceability:

- A **direct cost** is a cost that is able to be traced to a cost object. (Ex: thread that goes into jeans. )
- An **indirect cost** is a cost that is not able to be traced to a cost object. (Ex: building costs that jeans are made in. )

Controllability:

- **Controllable costs** can be increased or decreased by company/manager action.
- **Non-controllable costs** can not be changed by company/manager action.
- Only controllable costs should factor into an evaluation of a division’s profitability

Relevance:

- **Sunk costs** are costs that arose from a decision made in a previous period that cannot be changed or reverted.
- **Avoidable costs** could have been prevented/reduced by proactive action as opposed to **unavoidable costs**.

Function:

- A **product cost** are costs related to direct material, labor, or other costs that go into the product being produced.
- A **period cost** are costs that are expensed to the period they are incurred.

Manufacturing:

- **Direct material** is material that goes into producing a product
- **Direct labor** is the labor directly going into making the product
- **Factory overhead** is all the costs surrounding the creation of the product, but not directly related to the product production.

Inventory:

- **Raw Materials** are the materials products are made of
- **Work in Progress** is product that is not ready for market
- **Finished Goods** are product that is ready for market

Inventory Breakdowns:

`Beginning Raw Materials` + `Purchases of Raw Materials` = `Raw Materials Available` = `Transfers to Work in Progress` + `Ending Raw Materials Inventory`

`Beginning Work in Progress` + `Transfers from Raw Materials` = `Work in Progress Available` = `Transfers to Finished Goods` + `Ending Work in Progress`

`Beginning Finished Goods` + `Transfers to Finished Goods` = `Finished Goods/Cost of Goods Available` = `Cost of Goods Sold` + `Ending Finished Goods Inventory`
